all right hey everybody um
here with a special treat here with
brian halligan
um ceo and co-founder of hubspot and
brian
has been kind enough as well as his
co-founder darmesh to join us
many times at saster over the years but
this is a special one
hubspot just crossed 1 billion in ar and
000 paying customers so congratulations
brian thank you jason
thank you for having me it's a real
honor to be here i'm a giant
fan of yours and disasters well thank
you um
i want to kind of do we've been doing
this five interesting learning series on
sastra where i pick out the five things
as a founder that i think interesting
about hubspot and it was fun that
you want to do this live and chat about
it but before we get
there did you when you i i know in the
early days it's hard to even see it a
billion but did you think you would get
there with a hundred thousand paying
customers did you think it might be a
million was this the acv
and and the type of customer makeup you
thought you'd have when you got to the
stage
honestly we never thought much about
what the makeup would be when we get to
a billion dollars because we weren't
thinking much about getting to a billion
dollars in the early days we were
looking to get the product market fit
and go to market market fit and really
focused on
just growing in the moment so somebody i
was on somebody else's podcast and they
were asking me
well back in the day when did you think
you'd get to a billion and i
when we started the company we hoped we
would get here but we would have put
very low odds on it and yeah so i'm not
sure we really thought a lot about the
mix
having said that the arpu
of hubspot hasn't changed that
much over our 14 years yeah that to me
is very interesting right you've added
you've added a lot more functionality
you've added got
much broader much broader but the arpu's
the same so
what are the what are the learnings
there you've got crm you've got support
you've got this whole
suite now and it's still ten thousand
dollars isn't it
it is and it's because the denominator
is so much bigger
we we leaned hard we pivoted halfway
through hubspot from a marketing app to
a crm
platform and we're still kind of halfway
through that pivot uh
and when we did that we decided to go
heavy freemium then we decided to go
with make it easier to start if you're a
little tiny startup there's two of you
getting going
and then you get to 20 employees we want
a price point you can get into it with a
starter edition then a pro and an
enterprise
so we introduced that starter edition
inside of hubspot
at a relatively low price point and you
can buy our whole starter suite now
for fifty dollars a month so it's a
little deceiving if you took the starter
suite out the arpu would have gone way
way up over time
okay that's the subtlety i'm missing but
what we really did and it's a little
current too because everyone always
moves up market up market up market
we actually kind of slid down market for
a little while and we just want to make
it easier for people to buy and easier
for startups to get in early and then
scale with us versus buy some other
crappy platform then have to switch to
hubspot somewhere along the way
and did you just going back a little bit
and i want to talk about kind of the
revenge of the smb which is what i think
we're seeing in 2021 right
but but back in the day when you saw
folks like marketo and eloqua take off
and i know we're dating ourselves a
little bit
right but you weren't tempted i know you
got
leads from some of their biggest
customers they came in right they must
have seen look
hubspot hubspot's better for me or at
least you're in the deal you get in the
deal you weren't tempted
a bit to chase those bigger acvs
uh everyone around us was tempted all
our investors were tempted our board
members were tempted i bet they were
your investors
yeah we were not and there's
i reread so i'm not a big fan of peter
thiel's
politics but he said something really
smart in his book way back when he said
you have to be
right about something for a long period
of time
that everyone else thinks you're wrong
about and i think we were
right about our target market
everyone else in the world still our big
investors like well when are you going
to go sell to the fortune 500
we always thought that there'd be a
giant market down below that fortune 500
for startups that wanted
to scale from two employees to 2000
employees and build a killer product for
those people
and our thesis was that historically no
one made money in that because you
couldn't sell to them you couldn't
market to them you needed this field
sales force you had to fly people
it's just the cost to acquire is too
expensive and our thesis was
really obvious from retrospect that you
could dramatically drop cac by using
consumer-like marketing techniques
inbound marketing content marketing
freemium to get to these people
and so i think we were right about that
for a long period of time
and lots of other people were wrong um
in a little bit of
and you have to get the math right to
pull that off and it took us a long time
to get the math right but
that's kind of how i think about it i
also i'll just tell you
personally i think darm mesh feels the
same way
i grew up in my career in enterprise
software selling to the fortune 500
selling
cio and it's like it's a hard life
i mean it's just not super fulfilling
and i wanted a life that was a little
bit different than that i didn't want to
have to be
chasing cios around for the rest of my
life so we wanted to
you know bring a consumerization that
people have been talking about
consumerization of enterprise software
for 150 years
it finally happened over the last couple
yeah it's interesting we've seen
i when i've done these five interesting
learnings i've watched
some folks like pagerduty right which
which eventually went up markets slack
we know the majority of their revenue as
they crossed a billion hubspot a billion
right as they crossed a billion more
than half their revenue became
enterprise and
we can remember using slack in the early
days and it was almost dev focused right
um but if i look at your numbers um
i mean your growth this last quarter was
30 some odd percent right which
i think was even up over over a year
over year or quarter over quarter right
growth accelerating with smbs right
so what does that mean is is it is it
just smbs
finally getting to use this these these
sas products what
is it is it just because it's not just
the cloud getting big this is smbs in
particular this is not cio budget right
what what's happened did it just take
smes a while to get here why why beyond
hubspot being a world-class product
are smes accelerating now
i think these products are getting
easier to buy and easier to use and
approachable for smbs
and that just wasn't the case for the
longest longest time the market
is there if you add up the number of
smbs
it's it's a giant number and if you add
the arpu
of what someone would pay it is an
absolutely ginormous market
uh and the good news for hubspot is
we're like two percent into the market
that market is very very big
and they're just waking up to sas that
they can use it in most of this market
the market today versus 14 years ago is
very different the buyer of hubs off 14
years ago
was kind of a luddite you know they they
did press releases and they did sort of
you know brochures and stuff like that
the buyer has changed
and they're pretty technical and they're
very savvy with software and they're
very fast with the software and that's
been a sea change in our buyers
that uh our original buyer was someone
we call mary marketer
and mary marketer was kind of a luddite
didn't really understand
didn't understand technology well didn't
use it well we had to teach her how to
use technology
our buyer today is very very different
it's pretty savvy actually with
technology maybe they're not writing
code in the middle of the night but
they know how to use software and how to
deploy and get value out of it
that's an interesting inversion of the
typical early adopter phase right where
the early folks like in slack
are super techy and then eventually you
get to marry or
or mark whatever whatever his uh his
persona is but
that's been flipped around in the case
of hubspot a little bit yeah we never
had that like crossing the chasm curve
i've re read and rewrite custom casting
so many times we never had that
like early adopter techie type it was
more we went after
mary marketer and mary marketer oh gosh
she was in a lot of pain like she was
doing trade shows and she was doing
press releases and
brochures and the world was changing
under her feet and she was trying to
figure it out
and part of what the magic of hubspot
was we built an app that was easy for
use
we created content for her we created
training in a university
and we helped create that new profession
that new marketing profession we helped
make her
you know progress in her career so it's
a little bit of a software play it's
also very much a community
and content and training play
yeah and did now thinking back of that
transition from from
from mary and mike to the more tech
focused
did that was was going freemium
later in life correlated to that did you
need did you want to go premium in part
to get
into more more tech focused customers or
is that just a coincidence
um well first of all it's not really
even check focus like your average
liberal arts graduate that's 28 years
old
is pretty possible with technology well
they're fluent in the web anyone anyone
in
the next generations is fluent in the
web right and that they're fluent
it's like myself like i'm fluent in the
web i know how to use
it uh and so it's we're not even going
after deeply technical people just your
average person who's 28 years old today
is pretty good at using technology your
average person is my age now
is pretty good with technology your
average person 14 years ago whether they
were 28 or mine
was pretty bad at it so yeah i guess i
would just say that it's just remarkable
how much it's changed there like you
used to teach people how to reset their
password and stuff like that
it's amazing how this has changed and i
forgot your question that's the question
oh
it's more just it's one of the things
there's a couple things that are not
unique to hubspot but are interesting
and one is going freemium later
not starting there and i know it's the
case but i don't actually know why and
if that
is tied to the change in some of your
buyer personas
it was so about seven years ago we
pivoted for being
we're a marketing app uh inbound
marketing marketing automation content
marketing websites all that kind of
stuff
and we pivoted to we want to solve a
different problem we want to be a crm
platform we want to help people create
awesome
disruptive experiences for their own
customers and so
we very much pivoted that point when we
pivoted our vision for the company
we said we wanted to pivot our business
model and have not only a disruptively
easy product but make it disruptively
easy to buy
relative to the big incumbents in the
space so he said let's make it freemium
no one else is doing premium in the crm
space
let's make the product so easy to use
that somebody who's in a startup in
their garage
comes in just starts using hubspot they
get all their contacts in there they're
emailing out of it they build their
website
next thing you know they're on hubspot
and we grow with them and so it was
really
it was really at that time when we
pivoted our business model
and our product strategy uh so it was
very popular the other thing about
hubspot we're always very rooted in this
idea
of you want to match the way you go to
market with the way humans
actually shop for things and buy things
the way human shopping buy has changed
so much in the last 14 years
and whether you're selling i think to
the fortune 500
or you're selling to a two-person
startup i think freemium is the way to
go
uh in almost any model because no one
wants to talk to your sales rep anymore
yeah they really don't they just want to
try it themselves and set it up
uh and yeah you'll talk to your sales
rep later on down the road once they've
figured out that it might be a good fit
they want to
figure out the packaging and they want
some detailed questions answered but
you want to match your go to market with
the way people actually want to buy
stuff today
yeah it's interesting let's tie that a
little bit to another thing that is not
uncommon but is very interesting about
hubspot which is partners in the channel
right
so uh i might not want to talk to a
sales rep the day i try hubspot crm
marketing right but clearly
if 40 of your revenue comes from
partners in the channels i want help
deploying a world-class
marketing crm solution right i want and
when i see that
there's because there's there's almost
there's not a conflict but there's an
overlap between
freemium product and solution and as you
become more of a solution
most businesses want help don't they i
don't want to do all the heavy lifting
right i want someone to help me do this
work
even if the software seems to be easy to
deploy
okay it turns out it's about 50 50
across our customers
uh 50 just want to do it themselves and
they buy directly from us
and they set up themselves we teach them
how to do we teach them how to fish
50 of them need a bunch of help and
they'll buy through an agency partner or
a crm implementer we have like 5 000 of
these partners they're terrific
and they know our product cold and they
go and they do big consulting projects
and they set the thing up they may use
it for them they may run a forum
and so it splits like 50 50. um and so
we have a good size channel and that
channel takes
really good care of our customers in
fact the retention rate of our customers
that come through our channel
is a little bit better than the
retention rate of our customers that
come through the direct channel
well maybe there may even be more
coverage there may be more people
working in your channel than there are
at hubspot
itself right yes yes so our channel like
we do a billion in revenue our channel
is five
if you add in the the partners it's five
billion that was the question
what's the mult like how much how much
does on a 10k hubspot deployment i know
that's an average so it's a little
misleading probably the partners drive
it up a bit
but how much more do they do you have a
sense of how much more they pay the
partner to do to do the work is it one x
or two oh it's 5x
it's 5x got it yeah if you look at sap
it's like
50x and we're about 5x yeah and i know
the answer is
no but just looking back were you were
you tempted to bring more of that
revenue and house salesforce obviously
didn't want it right
but you look at others like qualtrics
that ipo'd right they really like having
that revenue and house because they made
it profitable were you ever tempted to
do more of that work or just
you never never had any interest right
even if you can make it profitable
i'll tell you something weird about
valuations
historically the way someone would value
a company like hubspot that has 95
software and 5 services and let's say
the
software gross margins are 82 and the
services are
whatever it is we're a little bit
nervous 30 30. 30.
whatever it is they would value the
software revenue
at call it 10x whatever
and then value the service revenue at 2x
for whatever reason
they don't do that anymore and they
don't care they don't care
in in in the canonical example of that
is shopify where they have
this fantastic growing sas business that
multiple
valued an unbelievable multiple because
it's growing really fast they have this
giant payments business that is low
margin business
and larger larger incredibly fast
yeah they just blend them together and
they get sas multiples so the world has
changed the way i think about it so when
we started hubspot it was very much in
that old world so for one
that was one big reason we didn't want a
lot of services revenue
two is is one of the early one of our
early board members had started a
marketing automation company and
failed and the lesson he gave us was
marketers like
services i mean you look at any
marketing budget and there's so many
agencies doing different things it's
like
you can very easily get wrapped up in
doing
all of this services and our early
customers wanted to do all like can you
write our blogs for us can you do our
social media posts and they wanted us to
do all that stuff but we could have
easily done it
um but we said we kind of flipped it and
said actually can we turn this into an
opportunity and build a partner channel
and build a big community around this
which is a big moat and enable them to
just sell it
and so that's kind of how we thought of
it i could imagine you like you're
saying you probably and sometimes
founders see this today too you could
almost have been sucked into being a
super agency
right people would have wanted you to do
all okay i have this agency and their
software just you
you guys do it all from me you write my
blog you do my actual seo engineering
you do my ads
you do ever i want everything from you
right now pay you 100 a year right
instead of 10 grand a year if you do
everything right totally
i'll tell you an early story we had a
bit so you
you know our first sales guy is the guy
named mark roberts who's both basically
your conference and stuff
uh and i remember the first customer he
signed up jason was a company called
ceo dad and i don't know he's still
around dot com
and he was a professional uh he was a
professional comedian and his
professional dad joke guy
and mark signed them up and we didn't
really
know what we were selling at the time
this guy was like our fourth customer
and mark said no problem we're gonna
have our founder write your
jokes for you and oh man he kills out
he's just like
throw anything into the deal yeah yeah
and he said no no no he doesn't have to
write the jokes for me but
uh i'd love to work and so i remember my
first call with him
it was it was the night he purchased
something the deal and that night i was
up to dinner eight o'clock at night
there's a restaurant down the street
from my house and i got a call
and i never really get calls from my
phone and so if i get a call on my phone
i
assume it's urgent so i picked it up and
it sure enough was ceo dad
and i say hey nice to meet you whatever
and he said oh i need
you need your help right now i'm like
all right and so he said look on your
phone i just sent you my first blog
article
is that okay i'll read it tomorrow if i
say no no you gotta read it now
and i was like okay i started reading
the article
and he said no no no no read it out loud
okay
so i'm on the sidewalk reading his
article out loud on
the sidewalk and i'm about halfway
through it he said
what are you doing and i said i'm
reading your article he said you're not
laughing
i said it's not funny
and so that was the kind of stuff i was
getting sucked into
i could take your 60 hours a week right
there totally
and then anyway i went back and forth on
a damn blog article and then i posted it
on reddit
i don't know it's a disaster i'm like
mark stop doing that just like
software that was one of the early
formative moments i was like this can't
be my life for the next
20 years you know a little bit of scar
tissue can focus you as a founder and
lead to a great outcome
right you could have had you could have
been more enterprise if you just didn't
have this little bit of scar tissue
we could have easily built a giant
services company darmesh and i knew a
lot about services
and or a lot about how to do seo and
content marketing we could have easily
done it could have done it
yeah but it would have been a bad move
well let me just
i don't want to spend all the time but
this this this 50 from the partners in
the channels and doing so you didn't
want to be enterprise right but you did
embrace agencies which are quirky and a
lot of work and i've learned a lot about
this
i don't know how many folks in marketing
do this but i've learned in the shopify
ecosystem all the winners in shopify do
this all the winning shopify partners
partner with the shopify agencies you
got to do it the the clavios and the
gorgeouses so
um just two questions for folks thinking
about that
one i'm curious do your part are they
are they hubspot only shops in terms of
just you as an application
do they do other competitors do they do
other products right do they specialize
and
how do you keep them how do you invest
in them the
vast majority are are
selling they're not selling salesforce
and dynamics in adobe they're selling
hubspot and servicing hubspot but
you know i'd say 10 of them and some of
the bigger ones support all of them
uh
[Music]
oftentimes they're building a solution
with hubspot so they put in hubspot
they put in gong they put in um
you name it you know we have thousands
we have many hundreds of partners that
plug into hubspot so they'll plug all
kinds of stuff into hubspot with hubspot
is the hub though so they want
do they want to webify their business or
do they want to automate customer mark
like why do they go to the agency
right number of reasons like they may
start with hey we want a
new website and they build them a new
way a new website got it and then they
say oh you know
we wanna we have this database it's a
message you clean up our database you
can segment it
and then oh can you help us with account
based marketing with husband it's like
oh our crm like
we never really use our crm we got this
old crm and like our
reps maybe we could just use hubspot for
that we can't train our reps how to use
it like it kind of
grows from there and they can kind of
come in at different angles but they
typically
hubspot is the hub not let's say
salesforce or dynamics and salesforce
has a lot of
great partners and dynamics those too
and they're pretty dedicated i think
it's hard for them to have multiple hubs
it's just a lot to keep in their heads
it's a lot it's a lot it is
um but they typically are building a
solution with lots of different apps
most of our hubspot customers now
decent-sized customers will have 20
other applications
plugged into hubspot and running
workflows and they've got surveymonkey
and they've got eventbrite and they've
got devi and they've got all this
different stuff that they're plugging in
and they kind of run use subspot as
their hub is 20
um and just two two on this then one
last question for one a time but
is that the stack do folks run 20 apps
integrated with hubspot is it one plus
20 is that a typical
a typical deployment you see it really
varies
on the company's size but if you're you
know we have lots of
hubspot customers that let's say our 100
employees or so they'll have 20 apps
plugged into hubspot
and do you have a sense because it isn't
do you know what their total deployment
for sas software might be for that all
of that like what are they sp
because hubspot then is just hubspot
actually is a small slice even if it's
the hub of that overall
it's not like salesforce where it's
often half like if you take salesforce
plus deployment that can suck up half
your budget
right in some cases but if i'm doing 10k
on hubspot or 15k and more to deploy but
i got gong and bevy i'm spending
hundreds a hundred plus thousand dollars
on top of it
aren't they gong is expensive really
expensive so if they're using comics
expensive but if you're using bevy or
you're using
hoppin and you've got surveymonkey and
you plug it in and you get your
your netsuite connected into it kind of
depends on what's going like netsuite's
expensive but maybe you've got
quickbooks plugged in that's inexpensive
so
you know when we look at that we look at
the five to one
it's like two to one on other software
products plugged into hubspot
that's interesting to twice the expense
on your partner ecosystem right
so if i hit it if i hit it as a hubspot
partner i can make a lot of money
because that two to one is much higher
than some than a workday or a sales
force or even a shopify it's much higher
than shopify right
that's a huge multiplier if you're a top
top 20 hubspot uh ecosystem app isn't it
it's huge it is
and the ecosystem has evolved there's
different types of partners in their
ecosystem like we obviously have
facebook and google these giant ones
um and then we have like the venture
backed startups and like hoping and
betty are good examples of that because
they're top of mind
um but then we're starting to see more
and more companies just start
on hubspot like there's a great company
called pork chart hub
and they make it really easy within the
crm to build an org chart that you can
use and share within our crm like
more and more entrepreneurs are sort of
building their whole business around us
but the other thing that's happening
that's interesting
is a lot of these partners we work with
like we have software partners they have
services partners
these services partners i mean with the
advent of javascript your average sort
of developer that
that doesn't have a cs degree can do
amazing stuff now
and so they're they're using javascript
and extending hubspot
in amazing ways with one-off things
they're building on top of hubspot that
is mushrooming on top in our ecosystem
as well
got it i didn't i didn't completely
realize why there's affinity with zapier
in similar applications but now i get it
right because they can make hubspot so
much more extensible right
yeah our last question on this and i
want to just do one last one on
sort of free channels but so these the
these
like how how just for everyone to learn
how defensible because i view these
these these agencies um and
partners if if they're hubspot shops
right you have to invest in them because
if you treat them poorly they will go
away eventually right
but if you treat them well i find it one
of the quiet biggest moats out there
right when you go to that agency and
they're a shopify shop right on their
door
that's a big deal that's a big deal
right and is it is it a moat for hubspot
is it is it defensible is it something
people should try to pull off when they
can
i don't think it's quiet i think it's a
loud mode no i know it's a loud no but i
think folks that have only sold direct i
don't know what percent of sas companies
have no
like no third but it's a lot right
it's not a part of the playbook that
everyone gets is my point not everyone
sees it right i think it's a giant mode
isn't it
it's a giant mode it's a huge
competitive advantage they're
largely wedded to us they built their
whole business around us so you think of
hubspot as a billion dollar company
but the hub spottosphere is this five
billion dollar entity
and there's thousands and thousands of
people outside of hotspot who deeply
understand the product
they're strongly incented to go sell it
and make their customers happy
it's a huge mode it's you know the
company who's fantastic at this is
microsoft has a
huge community of partners around them
we don't get it unless you've seen it
you don't get it it doesn't make sense
to you right
and i grew up and i have a weird i grew
up at the software company called ptc
it's cad software company
and i spent a bunch of time in the
direct channel and we had resellers and
implementers and
and i spent a bunch of time in there and
i was like this model can work
inside a hubspot uh it's it was
basically a reseller model we had sort
of similar to autocad people know more
about autocad they go through resellers
and so it's sort of in my dna because
i've worked in the channel for a long
long period of time
yeah i continue to learn i was listening
on we were talking about clubhouse
before and harley talking about
the president hubs of shopify a few
years ago when they were neck and neck
with big commerce and another right and
today
it's it's vast and he was talking about
how ease of use and onboarding were the
reasons and i'm sure they are i mean
he's been there since the early days
right
but when i as a as a student of this
look i think it's the partner ecosystem
it's a platform right because good god
when i now that i've invested or worked
with some folks in the shop
you can't like it is you cannot get in
there right these shopify shops
they're you know it's a big i got to go
online tomorrow brian there's covid's
hit and like
if if if you're a shopify shop i almost
don't i don't care like get it done for
me right and i'm not saying it's the
same at hubspot but it's
it's an amazing mode if you can do it
and understand it right and people don't
get it people don't get why microsoft
wins here right i
i didn't get it and it's powerful right
and it lowers the risk let's say you're
let's say you're sasser and you're
looking for a crm and you're like
i could go with hubspot or i could go
with salesforce but
i'm working with this agency who's built
a whole bunch of stuff for me on
this other side in their house they know
how to implement hubspot
it just lowers the risk for you it
lowers the risk for you right and i
think
the other interesting thing we could
talk forever is what you know as saster
inc as an s
we're a big enough smb that i'll i'll
throw money at deployment now
like i have more money than people right
so i i talk with these vendors like like
event software talking about events i
mean we've qualified like 40 digital
events software right and like
stop talking to me about what your acv
is here's our needs we're at scale
right i will pay you more money if you
solve these
i really don't care whether it's 10
grand or 20 grand or 40 grand a year i
want you to solve my problem
right and there's there's an smb line
that hubspot plays in this space that
you race but it's a tough spot isn't it
it's tough to solve those problems those
people aren't good at it
until it's 100k or more right it's real
work to do that
yeah but your partners can help you do
it the partners give you that lift right
it lasts into the same thing one of the
things has been interesting about our
partners is our partners pull us up like
if you look at our largest vcd deals
like lemonade is a customer
and uh we got a whole bunch of big
companies uh
that are customers now surveymonkey and
other folks uh
are usually it's our partners pulling us
in there that are they're in there doing
other work and they pull us into a
bigger deal
uh that's that's often they're they're
sort of a
gravity pulling us up but you were
talking about how do you take care of
your partners
so we do network motor score on our
customers net promoters work
on our employees network motor square
and our partners we obsess over raising
those
and we listen very carefully to our
partners and what our partner what
partners
want is they want they want to
grow their business so they want an
ecosystem that's growing there's stuff
going on and they can
find ways to make money
they want if they do well to get tiered
and it's like amazingly how important
tiering is and napoleon said this
something interesting uh he said it's
amazing what a soldier will do for a
little piece of
colored cloth on their shoulder you know
like
hearing is really important and if
you're an elite tier partner with
hubspot
you get unbelievable benefits um the
people who deal with those partners are
really important like we have a certain
ratio of our our partner managers to
partners
the quality of those people and the
engagement's really important the
training you give to partners so we
train the heck out of them
not just on hubspot but like how do you
do retain
retainers right how do you hire right
how do you build a culture like
teach them how to build a services
company that in fact
jason is really what enabled it to take
off at the beginning
they all were interested in inbound but
they were all
interested in our theories on how to run
an agency properly we built a whole
methodology on how to run an agency
that was really key for us in the early
days yeah until you see that
the i remember the first time i walked
into a software company back in the day
that was training their partners and
they're like in a huge room with like
i'm like what is this room for why why
did you fly out 200 partners
into your company i didn't even get it
it took me a while to figure out what
was going on right
but if you do that it's powerful right
it is so powerful right
and these partners want help they're
typically like 20 person companies and
the ceo's doing a lot of the selling
they're busy
and they're like can you help me grow my
business then our answer is yes we're
going to teach you not just about
implementing hubspot
but we're going to teach about how to
grow your business that's been a key
secret for us
all right last one i love this partner
discussion because it's so it's under
discussed right it's so interesting
the last one i just want to hit is and
i'll tell you why
is i i think in your in your last
quarterly announcement not this one but
the last one you said
that 60 of your customers come from free
channels right that 33
came from word of mouth if i got this
little wrong you can correct me or
ignore it but
33 from word of mouth 26 from seo and
google and 13
still from your blog right so the reason
i bring this up is
as founders we try to learn the case
studies of other companies right um
but we have to make sure we get them
right or we copy them
we've learned the wrong lessons so 60
seems like a lot right and i think this
might be the secret sauce to why
hubspot's business model works
because i think for at a 10k acv with a
sales driven model if you had to pay to
acquire all these customers i don't
think the math would work
right it seems to me this is a magic
engine
is this free and maybe 60 is consistent
with those but i haven't seen it broken
out the way you guys broke it out right
between word of mouth
seo and blog
we have a few
i guess we have a few little engines
that work one
is ye old content marketing inbound
marketing
writing blog articles that are
interesting creating
uh research content that's really
interesting
uh getting links into it ranking in
google trying to make that
content super compelling so that
everywhere people go whether they're in
twitter or they're on instagram or
they're in google they're just
seeing our content everywhere and we're
building up a lot of credibility with
people
um and then so that's an engine that's
just
it doesn't seem to have a limit even at
a billion in arr it doesn't really seem
to have a limit does it
that's something we talk about
internally like the amount of traffic we
get through google it's
it does it we always think well that was
it that was yeah
it's got a plateau it's got a plateau
right but it doesn't
the problem with it takes a long time
you've got to build up tremendous
amounts of domain authority over a long
period of time
and it's and you know it's easier
venture back startup you just got a big
round
give the money to google in facebook
yeah first is give it to a content
creator that creates great content that
will build you a sustainable
moat over a long period of time that's
one thing we have going for us and super
sustainable
the freemium product like
we think of ourselves we want to the
thing that's different about hubspot
than salesforce or
adobe or uh microsoft or oracle
all the other crms they started with
salesforce automation
and they just bought a whole crap ton of
other companies and glued them together
and built a crm that way and it's a
tried and true way of doing it
but i think that's gonna i think this is
something that
we're right about that that we're gonna
be right about for a while that everyone
thinks we're wrong about
but we're building ours from scratch
like every line of code is ours we're
building from the ground up and we're
building it to be
apple like easy to use like really easy
to use super scalable in the back end
and we're building it all from scratch
so we're hand crafting it versus
gobbling it
and i think that's going to really
benefit us because we do it that way we
can actually do freemium like if one of
those companies wanted to do premium
it would fall down on itself because
it's hard to stand that darn thing up
it's really hard to use
really hard to set up and so we try to
lean into our strengths
where maybe our competitors have
weaknesses and so we're trying to zig a
little bit where everyone stacks
so just the premium in the ease of
setting it up is a real
key for us in growing our business and
the partner channel is a real key to
growing our business
uh our culture and our being a really
good place to work that's a real key so
we have like
five or six things that we're really
really good at
we suck at a whole bunch of other stuff
but five or six things that are hard to
replicate and take time and energy
that we've really kind of mastered yeah
and it takes
a lot of that i think maybe the takeaway
from this it's interesting is
a lot of that takes more p patience
right it's people the real reason i mean
you're building you're building rather
than buying
um and the first time i met darmesh
might have been in 2014 or 15 when you
guys were thinking through some build
buy decisions
it takes longer that you know the mark
benioff doesn't want to waste time he
wants to hit scale and
that's not necessarily wrong but the
patience of build i mean it's years
it's it's years you get behind to get
ahead of that j curve
but if you get it right you come out
ahead on the other side of the j curve
right but it's it is like seo or other
things it's a long bet
right it's a long bet right and i'll
tell you about that that bet
that so we did we have some debates
about that bet a few years ago like
everyone around us is saying one go to
the enterprise in two
start acquiring just start acquiring
it's like you know you're
you're working you have the brand you
have the brand so go plug stuff into it
right
and you've got a 23 billion dollar
market cap let's just let's put it to
work
and we debated that one a lot and then
we said we're just going to bet on
ourselves we're going to go the opposite
way
everyone's telling us to do we're going
to build something that is beautiful
that we're going to love our customers
are going to love our mps is going to be
sky high
and the reason we're accelerating today
as you mentioned our revenue is
accelerating
it's that we made a bet two and a half
years ago that we were going to build
and we did a bunch of stuff at the
platform level and
we're getting the return on it today
that's why up spots started to
re-accelerate this year well good well
listen brian thank you for this time
congratulations
on re-accelerating it's uh it's
wonderful to see it's inspiring
i think to all of us to see that and to
watch that
it's fun now you can i know you're a
public company but out there and
out there on the horizon it's 10 billion
it's out there you can squint you can
squint but at 33
you can see it right you can see it
right and in fact you can't tell wall
street but there's actually a date on a
spreadsheet you have
uh within a couple quarters where where
if things go just right you can see 10
it's crazy that you can see 10 billion
out on the distant horizon isn't it
it is crazy i just i want to say thank
you to you i love your content
i'm a big fan of your conference and
everything you do you're you're
fantastic we end up we love sasser
i love your twitter feed you are the man
um
i appreciate you very much all right
brian thanks for the time and good
catching up
all right cool